# HTTPS Introduction
HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) is a protocol that secures communication and data transfer between a user's web browser and a website. It's a secure version of HTTP.

This protocol 
- protects users against eavesdroppers and man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks
- protects legitimate domain from domain name system (DNS) spoofing attacks

Reference
- [What is Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure](https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/definition/HTTPS)
- [Why is HTTPS more secure than HTTP?](https://youtu.be/Az-lNU_wC-A)
- [How does HTTPS work? What's a CA? What's a self-signed Certificate?](https://youtu.be/T4Df5_cojAs)

## Why do we need HTTPS instead of HTTP
Imagine that you have a social media account. What if the social media web server uses HTTP for communication? 
1. You open the social media web page/app
2. your browser fetchs all necessary resources from remote server through HTTP
3. you are asked to type username and password (credentials) and submit those information
4. the form is submitted and transfered to the remote web server in plain text through HTTP
5. the remote server verifies your credentials, send back the corresponding data to your browser (client)
6. finally, you get the data from social media server and you are able to carry further actions in your name, e.g. post photos, leave comments, give a like, etc. 

Maybe you already found something wrong. There are two main problems in the above process:
- during transfering the credential information in plain text, it could be stolen from a third person in the middle of the communication path
- it's difficult to identify, if the remote server is the one which we want to communicate with.

## Certificate and Certificate Authority
The HTTPS protocol solves those problems by means of signing certificate. First of all, following basic concepts are prerequisites to understand, how does certificate achives secure communication:
- **Private Key** - can be generated by anyone (machine) together with a corresponding public key. It is used to decrypt data which was encrypted by the corresponding public key.
- **Public Key** - can be generated by anyone (machine) together with a corresponding private key. It is used to encrypt data which can be decrypted by the corresponding public key.
- Encryption
- Decryption
- Certificate (digital)
- Certificate Authority
- Symmetric Key (Secret Key)

### Example connection flow
When you type the home page URL of youtube, following happens:
- youtube server sends a certificate to you, which involves the public key of the youtube server. This certificate was signed by a trusted CA (Google CA)
- Your browser needs to verify that certificate, as all trusted CAs' Public keys are known and stored in your browser. If everything is fine, your browser will verify this
- Then your browser creates a new secret key and encrypts it with youtube's public key. This encrypted secret key is then transfered to youtube server
- Now, only you (as client) and youtube server on the entire internet know this new secret key. Because you created it, youtube has the corresponding private key to decrypt your secret key.
- From now on let's encrypt all of our communication with this key.

### How is a certificate signed
How you make sure that the party you're talking to is actually who they claim they are? 

The answer is: by signing certificate through an official, trusted Certificate Authority.

### Self-signed certificate
